#summary Getting started with BioLink

= Installing a new instance of !BioLink =

The latest published build of !BioLink 3.0 can be downloaded from [http://code.google.com/p/biolink/downloads here].

== Creating a !BioLink database ==

=== Installing SQL Server ===

BioLink requires a connection to a SQL Server database instance. Installing a new !BioLink database is simply a matter of 'attaching' the starter database file to the SQL Server database, and then connect to it using the !BioLink application.

In order to attach the !BioLink starter database you will need administrative privileges on the SQL Server.  If you already have administrative access to a SQL Server 2008 R2 instance, you can skip this step.

*Note:* At this time, the supplied starter database is compatible with  SQL Server 2008 R2 or greater only. Existing !BioLink databases running on older versions of SQL Server can be connected to using the !BioLink client without any issues, however.

  * Download and install SQL Server 2008 R2 from [http://www.microsoft.com/sqlserver/en/us/editions/express.aspx* here].

*Note:* During the installation of SQL Server you will be prompted to enter a name for your database instance. The full name of your database instance will be the name of your computer + a slash + the name your entered. For example, if you choose to call your database instance `biolink`, the full name of the database instance will be `<yourcomputername>\biolink`. You will need to know the full name of the database instance in order to connect to it. 

In addition, you should also allow "SQL Server" authentication mode (mixed mode). This will allow you to more easily manage your user accounts. This mode can be disabled once a !BioLink user user has been created that can manage users.

  * Download and install the SQL Server Management Management Studio from Express from [http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?id=22985 here].

  * Download the !BioLink starter database from [http://code.google.com/p/biolink/downloads/detail?name=BioLinkStarter.mdf here].

=== Attaching the Starter Databaser ===

Start the SQL Server Management Studio, and when prompted, connect to your running SQL Server instance.


== Installing !BioLink 3.0 ==

== Starting !BioLink for the first time ==

= Upgrading an existing installation=

== !BioLink Installer ==

== Existing connection profiles ==