#summary How to build BioLink from source

= Required tools =

  * Visual Studio 2010 or [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2010-editions/visual-csharp-express Visual C# 2010 Express]
  * Dot NET Framework version 4.0 (*Note* this will be installed with Visual Studio Express)
  * The [http://nsis.sourceforge.net/Download NullSoft Scriptable Install System] (Install with default settings) 
  * Subversion client (http://subversion.tigris.org/) - SlikSVN, for example. 
  * MSBuild extension pack (http://msbuildextensionpack.codeplex.com/) (Download and install the MSI 4.0.3 version)
 

= Building BioLink =

BioLink is built using MSBuild, which comes with the .NET Framework. The Atlas of Living Australia uses a continuous integration server that rebuilds BioLink whenever changes are committed to the repository, and the build project has been configured to work on this server. For this reason you may need to edit the build project file slightly in order for it to work on your own system.


  * Checkout the source code from the Google Code Repository
_For example_
{{{
C:\>mkdir Biolink
C:\>cd Biolink
C:\Biolink>svn checkout http://biolink.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ biolink-read-only
}}}

  * Edit the {{{ BuildBiolink.proj}}} file so that the {{{NSISPath}}} property points to the actual install location of the NullSoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS) on your machine.

  On 32bit systems this will most probably be:

{{{
    <NSISPath>&quot;C:\Program Files\NSIS\makensis.exe&quot;</NSISPath>
}}}

  On 64 bit systems it will probably be:

{{{
    <NSISPath>&quot;C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\makensis.exe&quot;</NSISPath>
}}}
  *Note: the &quot;'s are necessary because of spaces in the path.

  * Build BioLink 

  *Note:* You must supply a value for the {{{BuildNumber}}} property. This number is stamped into each assembly, and the installer filename.
  *Also Note* that MSBuild will not be on the PATH by default. You can either modify your PATH environment variable in include the location of MSBuild (version 4.0.x), or specify its full path on the command line, as demonstrated below.

{{{
C:\Biolink>cd build
C:\Biolink\build>C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v4.0.30319\MSBuild BuildBioLink.proj /p:BuildNumber=999
}}}